The purpose of the resource server is to extract the JWT token from the request,
validate it by checking the signature, the expiry,
and optionally if the issuer and audience is correct,
effectively to authorize the request to the protected resource.
Currently, the two REST services are not secured, and anyone can access them.
The main difference between the clients and these services is that the
controllers are RestControllers and not the MvcControllers.
Now this is not uncommon to find.
The client and perhaps an API gateway would be accessible
from outside a firewall and be secured,
while all the services are behind the firewall and not secured.
However, this is asking for trouble.
Anyone behind the firewall can access the services,
a rogue employee or a consultant,
and there have been many high-profile cases in large
organizations where the hacker was someone on the inside.
Also,
I've seen many cases where a configuration error resulted
in a development or testing environment actually
connecting to a production service,
resulting in major production issues and impacting consumers.
Converting the services into secure resource servers is
very straightforward with Spring.
We add the spring-boot-starter-security dependency and the
spring-book-starter- oauth2-resource-server dependency.
Spring Boot will now detect these dependencies and
trigger the appropriate autoconfig class,
securing all endpoints.
The resource server will need a way to validate the token's signature.
Hence,
we even need to send a token to the authorization server for validation or
have access to the public keys to verify the signature.
In our application.yml file, we can add the JW key set URI or the issuer URI,
and we can get these details from our Keycloak discovery document.
Providing the issuer URI will allow for validating the issuer
claimed in the token as an added security check.
It will match the issuer in the discovery document
with the one in the JWT token.
That's it.
If we try to access the microservice now,
you can see the request is blocked as we are not authenticated.
Easy.
If we look at the filter chain,
we can see that Spring has added the bearer token authentication filter,
which, as the name suggests, will look out for the JWT token in the header,
then delegate to the AuthenticationManager who will
use a JwtAuthenticationProvider,
which will decode and validate the token with the
NimbusJwtDecoder and convert the trusted token into an
authentication object using a JwtAuthenticationConverter.
In later modules,
we'll customize the decoder to add more validation to the token and the
converter to custom map claims and scopes to roles.
To recap, our React client will perform the implicit grants with Keycloak,
get an access token,
and then forward it in all subsequent requests to the resource server, which will then validate the token.